In this lecture, we are going to finalize our solution by rendering open graph tags into the head section
of the document.
Social media platforms will scan the head section of a document format tags.
On these tags, we can configure the open graph preview.
There are dozens of options that can be configured for the sake of simplicity, we will focus on a handful
of them.
The first step is to add a hook for rendering content in the head section of the document.
In your editor, open the main plugin file.
At the bottom of the hook section at an action hook called WP Head.
This hook will give us access to the head tag.
We'll be able to render additional tags.
The name of our function will be called up.
WP Head.
Next create a file called head php within the include slash front directory.
Inside this file.
Define the up WP head function.
The next step is to begin grabbing the current options.
Define a variable called options with the following value.
Get option up options.
If the user has disabled our plugins open graph feature, we should not continue running the function.
Define a conditional statements.
The conditional statement should compare the options.
Enable Ogg variable with one.
If this condition returns true, we will return the function to cease execution.
Let's assume this feature is enabled, we can continue running the function for readability.
I recommend defining variables for the title, description and image.
Create a variable called title with the options OG title variable as the value.
Next, create a variable called description with the options OG description variable as the value.
Afterward create a variable called image set to the options ogg image variable.
There's one last variable we'll create the URL to the page should be added to the preview.
Create a variable called URL.
Its value will be the site URL function with a forward slash character.
The site URL function will return a valid HTTP URL to our site.
We can pass any path to add to the base URL.
In this example, we're pointing to the home page.
The initial data is ready.
However, we're not going to render the tags yet.
First, we should check the type of page we're on.
If the user is viewing a post, the variables should be updated with the data from the Post's metadata
below.
These variables create a conditional statement.
The condition will be a function called is single.
The IS single function will check the current page.
It will detect if the page is displaying a single post.
If it is, the return value will be true inside the conditional block.
Let's begin updating the variables with the metadata from the post.
First, we'll need the ID to create a variable called post ID.
Set the value to the get the ID function.
The gets.
The ID function is another function defined by WordPress.
It will return the ID of the post.
We can safely assume there is an ID since the is single function and returns true after grabbing the
ID.
Let's update the title.
Create a variable called new title with the following value.
Get post meta post id og title.
True.
We're not going to directly update the title variable.
It's possible that the metadata may not have a value.
If that's the case, we should not update the title.
Otherwise, the open graph preview may be empty.
Let's set the title variable to the following value.
Empty title question mark.
Title Colon.
New title.
In this example, we're using the empty function to check the value for an empty value.
If it is, we should set the title variable to its initial value.
Otherwise we can safely update the title with the value from the metadata.
The description is going to be the same process.
Let's create a copy of these two lines of code.
The variable names should be updated to new description and description respectively.
They get post meta function can be updated to retrieve the OG description metadata value.
Moving on, we can start updating the image.
The process will be slightly different.
First, let's grab the metadata value.
Create a variable called override image with the following value.
Get post meta post id ogg override image.
True.
Next update the image variable to the following value override image question mark get post meta post
id og image true colon get the post thumbnail url post id open graph.
We have a very long line of code.
Overall, we're checking the override image variable.
If this option is enabled for the post, the image variable will be set to the image from the metadata.
Otherwise it'll be set to the posts.
Featured image.
We're using the get the post thumbnail URL function to grab the featured image.
This function has to arguments which are the ID of the post and the size.
We're getting close to finishing.
The last variable that should be updated is the URL.
Set the URL variable to the get permalink function with the post ID variable.
After updating our variables, we can begin rendering the meta tags at the bottom of the function output.
A meta tag.
Social media platforms will search for meta tags with two attributes.
The first attribute is called property.
Let's set this attributes value to Ogg Colon title.
The value for this attribute is important.
This value will configure the title of the preview.
We can set the title by adding the content attribute.
The value for this attribute will be the escape attribute function with the title variable.
As usual, the data will be escaped for the user's safety.
Next, let's add another meta tag.
This time the property attribute will be set to Ogg Colon description for configuring the description.
The content attribute will be set to the escape attribute function with the description variable.
Next we can configure the image by adding another meta tag with the property attribute set to ogg colon
image.
Let's set the content attribute to the escape attribute function with the image variable.
After setting the image at another meta tag, the property attribute will be set to ogg colon type.
This attribute can be added for configuring the type of URL that will be added to the page.
Set the content attribute to the website.
The website type is a generic type that will cover most cases.
Lastly, let's add one more meta tag.
The property attribute will have a value of ogg colon URL.
Lastly, set the content attribute to the escape attribute function with the URL variable.
After adding this information, we have successfully generated an open graph preview.
Unfortunately, we cannot test our code.
Our site must be live for a preview.
To be generated, local environments cannot generate previews.
However, just to make sure, let's refresh the page in the browser.
If an error does not appear, you can consider the solution a success.
Pat yourself on the back.
We finally added support for an open graph preview.
In the next section we are going to wrap up our site with a few tweaks.